{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10360\viewh12880\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Speech. \
\
1982, Atari 8 bit\
Bernie Dekoven, Jaron Lanier\
\
Jaron Lanier may take the cake over Bill Williams as the most insane dev life story. \
In any case Alien Garden first art game. Later made Moondust\
\
Published by Epyx, which was originally named AUTOMATED SIMULATIONS\
oddly fitting. \
\
Shortcomings:\
	Trial and error method to evolve 24 different plant types. \
	Score shoehorned in around the side of board. \
	plants don\'92t touch. \
	plants are repeated\
	plants don\'92t grow past a certain size\
	bs player death\
\
interestingly enough the cover refers to the flowers as crystals. \
So it actually makes sense that the configurations look jagged and stiff. \
\
Interested in cellular automata, thought I could a spiritual successor. \
instead of wings, head, tail you can now only plant or destroy plants. \
and choose which type to plant. \
\
It turns out CA are incredibly hard to control. \
Need a level of meta rules to control how they spread and overlap. \
Creating a game of life with arbitrary amount of different rules/states is computationally nontrivial\
\
hand tweak different plant behaviours to create desired ecosystem. \
\
adaptive cover a small radius and regenerate. they are almost impossible to kill\
parasitic kills live plants around it, but can only survive by spreading. \
invasive takes over live plants and mutates them into itself. \
\
Why Alien Garden. \
\
The power of the game lies in the ephemerality. At the back of the manual is says that if you get a good garden you may never want to turn off your computer. \
\
I think I\'92ve managed to do this. The possibility space is unknown. .j,There are too many different Cellular Automata to see. \
And your garden\'92s state is always changing. At times the best you can do is try to clear off the screen and restore a little peace to it. \
\
What restrictions was I free from. \
Color. \
Sprite Amount\
CA behaviour \
\
}